---
uid: changelogs_v10_10_6_2
title: Version 10.6.2
author: DisCatSharp Team
---

# Upgrade from **10.6.0** to **10.6.2**

> [!WARNING]
> This release contains important bug fixes and improvements.
> We recommend you to upgrade to this version as soon as possible.

> [!WARNING]
> The last versions including this one have under special circumstates a bug with reactions.
> If you encounter any issues in this direction, disable the reaction intents.

---

## What changed?

<br/>

➕ Added Application Command [Cooldowns](xref:modules_application_commands_cooldowns).

➕ Added [DefaultForumLayout](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordChannel.DefaultForumLayout) to [DiscordChannel](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordChannel) and it's methods.

➕ Implemented User Apps! You can now use apps anywhere :3 Articles will follow.

➕ [Nonce](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessage.Nonce) & [EnforceNonce](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessage.EnforceNonce) for [DiscordMessage](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessage) and the [DiscordMessageBuilder](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessageBuilder.WithEnforceNonce*).

➕ Re-implemented the timeout events [GuildMemberTimeoutAdded](xref:DisCatSharp.DiscordClient.GuildMemberTimeoutAdded) & [GuildMemberTimeoutRemoved](xref:DisCatSharp.DiscordClient.GuildMemberTimeoutRemoved). It won't show the broken audit log informations anymore.

➕ Added [InteractionMetadata](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessage.InteractionMetadata) to [DiscordMessage](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordMessage).

➕ Added [Polls](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/22163184112407)! Apps can now send polls, request vote information and get the result. Additionally two gateway events exist which are fired on vote add and vote remove. Articles will follow.

➕ Added [OAuth2AddToGuildAsync](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordUser.OAuth2AddToGuildAsync*) to [DiscordUser](xref:DisCatSharp.Entities.DiscordUser).

🛠️ Fixed a bug, causing apps to crash when trying to identify / resume. This was caused by both Discord and us. It seems to still bug out in special cases, we're on it!

🛠️ Fixed an NRE in GetMentions, which caused messages to throw on construct.

🛠️ Reworked ApplicationCommands & CommandsNext Cooldowns, articles will be updated in near future.

🛠️ The translator entities used for application commands localization are now `public`.

⚠️ Removed `TokenType.User`.

---

## Completed Roadmap

<br/>

### Cooldowns for DisCatSharp.ApplicationCommands (Completed)

We were planning to add support for cooldowns in DisCatSharp.ApplicationCommands. This feature would allow developers to set cooldowns for commands, preventing users from spamming commands. This is now implemented. See [this article](xref:modules_application_commands_cooldowns) for details.

---

## Future Roadmap

<br/>

### Signed Attachment

We added signed attachments previously but it clashed with other attachment types and broke. We will re-introduce the entity at some point soon.

### DisCatSharp.Voice (Planned)

In the pipeline is DisCatSharp.Voice, set to replace the existing DisCatSharp.VoiceNext. This upcoming version is being designed for enhanced performance and stability in voice-related functionalities of Discord bots, particularly focusing on audio recording. While it promises an upgraded experience for integrating voice features in Discord bots, please note that details are subject to change as development progresses.

### Caching System Overhaul (Planned)

We're contemplating a major overhaul of our caching system, which plays a crucial role in data storage and management for optimized performance. The goal of this proposed rewrite is not just to boost efficiency and reliability but also to add flexibility in how data is handled. This might lead to the introduction of new features and methodologies for data storage and retrieval, though these plans are currently in a conceptual stage.

### Audit Log Functionality Enhancement (On Hold)

Plans are underway to revamp our approach to the Discord audit log API. The intended rewrite of the audit log implementation is aimed at enhancing its functionality and user-friendliness. Potential improvements could include more efficient event tracking, superior data management, and expanded logging capabilities. However, these enhancements are in the developmental phase and are subject to change.

### DisCatSharp.CommandNext Revamp (Proposed)

We are proposing a complete rewrite of DisCatSharp.CommandNext, a module essential for handling text commands in Discord bots. This project aims to elevate the module's overall effectiveness, performance, and ease of maintenance. Anticipated improvements include new features and optimizations that could simplify the creation and management of commands. Please note that these plans are in the initial stages and may evolve.

---

## Feedback and Community Engagement

Your input makes DisCatSharp better! We warmly invite our community to share feedback, suggestions, or even report bugs.

Engaging with us helps shape the future of DisCatSharp, ensuring it meets your needs and expectations.


- **Join the Conversation:** Have ideas or questions? Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/2HWta4GXus) to discuss features, get help, or just chat with fellow developers.
- **Contribute:** Interested in contributing? Check out our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Aiko-IT-Systems/DisCatSharp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to see how you can contribute code, documentation, or report issues.
- **Stay Updated:** Follow our [news channel](https://discord.com/channels/858089281214087179/976624429935251527) on Discord to stay up to date on the latest developments.

Your involvement is invaluable to us, and we look forward to growing and improving DisCatSharp together with our community!

---

## Contributors

- [Lulalaby](https://github.com/Lulalaby)
- [Mira](https://github.com/TheXorog)
- [LaPepega](https://github.com/LaPepega)
- [Rand](https://github.com/byterand)
